g'day Ricker here from patch to plate
today we're going to be covering off how
to go about building an aeroponic stour
I'm only posting this because I've done
a bit of looking around on YouTube and I
couldn't find a detailed build video for
an aeroponics tower so I thought I'd
just give it a try before we get too far
into it this is a low-pressure
aeroponics tower that I'm building
most aeroponic systems or true aeroponic
systems or high pressure systems the
purists out there would argue that
there's no such thing as low pressure
aeroponics but anyway will beg to differ
and this is a low pressure build the
reason I've done it using low pressure
equipment is I just wanted to find stuff
that I could use at my local hardware
store low cost
and try it that way first and see how we
go before moving into high pressure
which generally costs a little bit more
all right well let's get on to the build
so again I sourced things that I could
get hold of reasonably cheaply so I've
used a 220 litre poly drum or 44-gallon
drum depending on what part of the world
you're in some string line and chalk
tape measure a marker just a small drill
for drilling some pilot holes a hole saw
again keeping the costs low
I used 54 millimeter hole saw so I'm not
sure what that is in imperial but in
Australia it's a standard doorknob kit I
use 40 mil PVC 45 degree elbows for the
for the grow tubes and then just you
know 13 mil straight poly pipe the same
sort of stuff that you'd put in in a you
know irrigation system in your home and
just the normal joiners and taps and
then formula meter misting heads again
just the stock standard sort of misting
heads that you'd buy for home drip or
irrigation system
I'm just trying those
with okay so first up I started just
getting the poly drum and using the
string line to mark some vertical lines
as I've worked my way around I just was
placing by hand the PVC elbows on the
drum just to get a bit of a feel for
spacing in hindsight and you'll probably
see this towards the end of the video
I've probably put too many grow holes in
I think it's a bit of a trap for young
players with these Taylor systems you
get a bit excited with how many grow
holes you can get in a really small
footprint and you know looking back on
it I probably should have put you know
maybe even half as many who knows so
I'll find out as I go but it might have
turned out to be a bit of a blessing in
disguise in that I'm thinking what I'll
do is cap some of the grow holes you
know and they'll be empty while I'm
growing and then as I've got plants
coming on at different stages of
maturity I can then open those up just
take the cap off and pop another plug in
you know so I've got more more
productivity as I go on so once I had
all of the verticals marked and sort of
my spacing marked out I just marked that
just with a permanent marker on the poly
drum I then just had got my variable
speed drill and just made some just
drilled all the pilot holes basically I
saw some stuff online saying that you
should use you know a wood drill bit for
drilling into poly look I used two
middle I used two middle drill and
provided that I started off pretty slow
it would bite into the poly fine I
didn't have any problem with the drill
head sliding around or anything like
that I then just selected one of the
sites and and drilled it out with the
hole saw and then sanded down or worked
out how I was going to get the the elbow
in and you can you can see in these
two photos firstly the hole and then put
one of the elbows in they did take quite
a lot of sanding I'll probably cover
that off a little bit later but I've had
to sand the PVC elbows on one end down
quite a bit again one of the reasons
I've done that is I didn't want to glue
anything I didn't want to have to glue
anything in so I wanted snug watertight
fits but for instance if I grew
something like Pak Choi or or something
that got stuck in a you know grow tube I
just want to be able to pull it out and
pop another tube in without having to
worry about things being glued in and
another one of my design considerations
is I didn't want to cut the drum apart
from filling holes in it I didn't want
to cut the top or the bottom off the
drum or or or interfere with the sort of
that integrity of the drum and terms of
the top or bottom of it too much so once
I had a look and saw that was going to
work okay I just went ahead and and
continued drilling all those holes out
with the hole saw took a fair while to
work my way around the drum
I've got ended up with 6767 grow holes
and to my kids to light 67 small blue
frisbees to throw around in the front
yard after that I just went ahead with
sanding the PVC elbows down and fitting
those into the holes once I've got about
halfway with that I thought I'd start
building the spray manifold so that I
could fit that and and fire it up and
have a look both in terms of just water
coming out of the holes and water
pooling into the bottom of the into the
elbows so I've got the tank halfway and
then started building the manifold
you've seen the pictures here it's a
pretty simple manifold and again it goes
with I didn't want to cut the drum the
top off the drum I just wanted to use
the existing bung holes that were there
so the design of the manifold is you
know two inlets or one inlet one outlet
with a tap on each end so the
interchangeable and then just you know
one meter of straight 13 mil poly pipe
that just descends down in through the
existing bung holes I then I mucked
around a little bit with the positioning
of the misting heads into those and I
found that I sort of I alternated in
almost a half spiral a 180-degree spiral
in on both sides so that there was never
a spy a spray opposing a spray on the
other side and that they were always
offset to each other but that all of the
different angles were covered you'll see
in the photos here I set it on the
ground upside down and just plugged the
hose into it and brought it up at pretty
low pressure and looked like a pretty
reasonable spray and the same thing when
I fitted it to the drum you know there
was there was misting water coming out
of all of the all of the holes and
pulling into all of the elbows if you
run wondering why I have got the two the
two inlets with the tap on the manifold
there one reason was so that I could fit
a hose if I need if any of the if any of
the misting heads got blocked or
anything I could fit a hose and put a
bit more pressure through them and try
and blow it out that way if I needed to
flush anything out I could just open the
opposite tap and just let the water run
through the other thing is I wasn't
quite sure just took going on the heat
that I was talking about earlier and and
not not wanting the drum to be in full
Sun all the time I figured if I had
interchangeable inlets I could rotate
the drum 180 degrees you know every
couple of days just to make sure that
all of the different grow sites were
getting access to full Sun and some were
having some time in the shade so like I
said I then continued on just fitting as
many of the elbows as I had here's a few
of the last remaining ones in the in the
bottom of my container here
look this took about probably a day a
day and a half just using an orbital
sander in my hand and just doing it by
eye now once you've done a few of them
you get the hang of it and you can do it
reasonably quickly so I sort of probably
do three or four at a time and then fit
them in the drum and just you know
adjust from there as I went so I'm about
you can see from these from the pictures
here I'm about 14 grow tubes left that's
because in any of the hardware shops
I've visited in Darwin there are no more
of these 45-degree elbows left I'm just
waiting on some of those to come in and
then I'll just finish that off and move
on and post a second video I thought I'd
do part two of this would be the a bit
more on the spray manifold the reservoir
the drains in the drum and you know the
pump and how that's all going to work
okay look I hope that that was useful so
far um hopefully I can get this build
finished off next weekend and the second
part of this video posted then any
questions at all please feel free to pop
it in the comments there and I'll get
back to people as quickly as I can again
I'm not an expert but I'm I'm having a
go and I'll keep you posted how it all
goes just a bit of a shout out as well
to a couple of YouTube channels that
I've been watching I'm really new to
this there's a couple of channels I've
been watching that have been really
fantastic in terms of you know
information and a bit of inspiration
from people so one of them is Brock
who's doing his hydroponics and Dutch
buckets and things like that
the other ones been at art garden so
I'll put some links in the bottom there
but those those couple of channels are
really well worth watching some great
info and those guys are you know really
good to watch as well good presenters
okay again thanks for watching and stay
tuned for part two of this build